There are different types of cash
flows and as you know depending on
whether we use some cash flows or others,
we will be representing different
things.
We will get different rates and
we will also have to use different
discount rates.
But well, what I just want now
is that you understand the difference
between the two that
we consider to be the main ones.
One is the free cash flow, which
is an absolutely basic term in finance
and the other is the equity cash
flow or shareholder cash flow.
I will explain it using an
example.
I think it will be very easy to understand.
We will go back, it is an example that
we like to put and it is the purchase
of a house or a house because it
is easy for us all to get into that
situation.
We think that we have an asset,
which in this case is a home,
which generates rent revenues
of 2,000 euros per month
equal to 24,000 euros per year.
This is what the tenant pays.
That housing generates some expenses
that are light, supplies, etc.,
those that are or municipal
fees, etc.
It can be around 4,000 euros a year.
If we were to make a profit
account as if we were a company,
we would have a gross profit
of 20,000 euros a year.
We are going to consider that the
gross profit is equal to the net profit.
We will consider that those 20,000
euros are not incorporated into the
income tax.
So we continue to descend.
Keep in mind that companies,
in addition to income, expenses,
etc., have to face investments,
investments in fixed assets,
investments in circulating
assets, etc., which we only
have in the balances.
This building requires
a re-investment every year.
And it’s easy that it’s very intuitive.
What reinvestments?
Because we will have to paint
the walls from time to time,
electrodes will be damaged, etc.
We expect this investment
to be 5,000 euros per year.
This is the first of the cash
flows, which is the free cash
flow.
This is free cash flow.
The free concept is used because
we have not yet taken into account
how we have funded them.
What the free cash flow informs
us is of the box or the tricks
that the company has generated during
that period, after having reinvested
in the fixed assets that need,
after having reinvested in the
circulating assets that need,
for example, if you have to increase
the NOFs, which is a concept that
we saw in accounting and that
if you do not know you should
return, after having made
all the reinvestments,
we have the free cash
flow.
But we have not yet paid the sources
of financing, we have not
paid the debt, if we have
received debt, we have not
paid the shareholders
through dividends, etc.
That’s what the company itself has
generated, regardless of how you’ve
funded yourself.
We do not take into account any entries
or debt amortisations, interest
or anything.
This is the free cash flow.
But really, in addition to understanding
how much the company generates, it’s
very important to also have the
perspective of, well, how much it
generates partners.
In this case, we will go
back to the example.
The owners of the housing result
that they have been funded, are
leveraged, indebted, in this case
with a mortgage loan, in
which they have to assume a quota
every month, that the quotas
are, then, amortisation of
the principal and interest,
but we add everything.
It’s out of the box, right?
That is 8,000 euros a year.
We can now calculate what the shareholder’
s cash flow is, which is that
in this case is 7,000 euros.
As you can see, before in the free
cash flow we talked about the cash
that the company generates after making
the reinvestments, etc., and that
cash will be used to remunerate
the providers of financing,
whether it is own funds
or foreign funds.
In this case, those 15,000 euros, 8,
000 euros, that year are cash outputs
that will remunerate the debt providers,
which are the banks, and the rest
is the cash flow of the shareholder,
that is what the shareholders
receive.
Finally, if we define the shareholder’
s cash flow, it’s very easy, it’s
very intuitive.
They are funds generated by the
company after reinvesting
in fixed assets, circulating
assets, etc., and after
having amortised, returned
the debt and paid interest.
Basically, it is what remains at the
end of the whole, below the whole, the cash
flow that remains for the whole.